Building desirability's

This document pertains to the desirability calculations of building and covers considerations and facts needed to be incorporated when
calculating desirability's.

The list of desirability's:

building_condition_desirability
building_crime_desirability
building_civil_service_desirability
building_services_desirability
building_leisure_desirability
building_population_desirability
building_pollution_desirability
building_beauty_desirability
building_commute_desirability


Considerations

Buildings perhaps have the highest array of desirability's because everything placed on a map is a building
within our simulation.

The Business model, as in the model we are looking at here is the inherited model for all map based entities,
so business, factory, office, residence, civil service, leisure facility.

The purpose of the desirability's is to either attract or repel population, as in real life, even low desirability
will attract population because the natural method to combat desirability is price, whether that be the price of a
product such as food or the rent of an apartment. For this reason price desirability will carry a heavier weight than
for example pollution desirability, and in real world recognition of this fact, it is an uncommon result that desirability
of any building is negative, however, this must be possible, in order to repel population, or in other terms, restrict the
desirability of a building, or again in another way, as described in the original game notes, to restrict the fluid of
population reaching a building.

Building Condition Desirability

Building condition desirability will be based upon maintenance and researches that affect buildings, while carrying
increases in environment, beauty, security etcetera will in fact all alter the condition desirability in regards of
maintenance of that building, so for example, although a buildings maintenance cost can be zero, research can still
produce desirability for a building, however should a research have a monthly cost to it, then zero maintenance will
render that boost to desirability as useless as if not paid for it cannot be considered. In this way it is fair.
However, we must also take care to ensure that a monthly cost for a maintenance out ways the straight maintenance
cost to the building, so for example if we pay $300 a month for air conditioning, then we should save on maintenance
fees for the building, so we could reduce the maintenance we pay for the building by $300 a month and still receive a boost in
desirability that out weighs the cost so for example, even though we reduce the maintenance cost by $300 a month because
we are paying $300 a month in fees for the boost it would in fact look to the buildings desirability as if we are actually
spending an extra $100 a month on maintenance.

Or in another sense, if we pay $300 a month maintenance on a building, and have air conditioning research then as far as the
building maintenance desirability is concerned, we are spending $400 on maintenance!

However, having air conditioning research on a building is a commitment to spending so if we were to also have research for
gardening at $200 a month, that would be a commitment of $500 spending a month on that building, so in one sense we would
think that if we are only paying $400 a month on maintenance of that building so we should not include the gardening boost.
In fact, as we are breaking our spending commitment on that building, we will penalise the player by removing all boosts
applied to that buildings maintenance by committed spending so even if they are are paying the committed $300 for the air
conditioning, they still will not receive the boost because they are committed to the gardening also.
While the above is not truly representational of real life, it will reduce getting into a quagmire of extra calculation
to decide what boost to remove because the maintenance budget is not high enough. It is the players responsibility to ensure
that they are paying there bills.

As a base for consideration, Paying 100% maintenance will be considered the building maintenance desirability of 100%
and any extra spending will raise that desirability above 100%, so if air condition represents 10% of the maintenance budget,
if the player does not reduce the maintenance budget of the building after the air conditioning research then the boost to
maintenance desirability of that building will be 2.5% or total 102.5 desirability, and if they were to reduce there maintenance
budget by 2.5% then their building maintenance desirability will still be 100

Decay factors

If a player consistently under budgets a buildings maintenance budget then it will cause a decay factor which will eat away at
their building condition desirability each round, the decay factor will be accumulating at a rate to be determined, but for example
if a player under budgets by ten percent, we will reduce desirability by 1 each round, so the first under budget round will have
a decay of 1 des, then the next round 2 des then the next round 3 des and so on. To undo the decay factor, the player will have
three options, 1. pay full maintenance each round and the decay factor will stop. 2. over budget the maintenance budget each round
(only possible with research) and the decay factor will reduce by the overspend each round. 3. Pay to repair the building manually
to remove the decay factor.

On master play level, we will also introduce rental charge reductions in line with decay factor, so that the amount the player
can charge for the buildings rent will be pushed below that of the local areas average rent for the building of that class.
We will also remove the possibility to repair the building manually, in that way the consequence for under budgeting maintenance
is far greater and will in turn give the player incentive to have good maintenance to help increase prosperity.


Crime Desirability

Crime desirability will generally be a negative effect on overall desirability of a building, the mitigation of which will only
be possible by the coverage of police services, and the distance from those police services. Local area crime will be based upon
a random generated number on a base percentage of the population, so for example if an area has no law, then up to 20% of the
population may partake in illegal activities, which will negatively affect that area, however the amount of that 20% that are involved
in crime will be based upon a random generated number, the closer in proximity the police service is, the lower the overall percentage
of population will be that consider crime, the optimum distance for 0 crime being for example 10km (each map tile as 1km example)
so for each block further away over 10 blocks, the risk of crime increases by 2% of the population which would make the maximum
distance for an 18% population involvement risk of crime would be 15 block, note these are example figures and conceptional.


Civil Service Desirability

Civil service desirability is a positive desirability factor and is based on the approximate location of local services, being
fire, health and education, while not having these services will not create any negative affect to desirability, having them
will increase the desirability of an area thus a building. The desirability factor will be a possible 99 based on the three
services however for example eduction will be affected by all four levels of education, primary, secondary, college and university.
Health will have both general practice and hospital, both making up 60% of the possible 33% of the possible desirability level,
what this does is enable a health boost in desirability of an area that has access to both services, so the 33% that health makes
up could actually be 33% plus a possible 6% making a service boost possibility of 105%. We will have various buildings that make
up that of a university as long as the buildings are within x range of each other they will represent an extra boost to eduction
for example if we have say a university library, medical wing, fire wing, police wing, agricultural wing, business wing, and political
wing as well as that of a university building the those buildings can represent a boost to the education factor, that factor will
cover the entire town/city also, in this way towns can have a university 'area', we could also incorporate commercial boosts to
the area within a proximity of the university and residential desirability boost also.

The considerations to this area will be thought out in a separate document as the possibilities here are great.


Building Services Desirability

This in short will be the factor of requirement of advertising, software and legal services, the level of a building
will play part in the requirement of the services and the attainment of the services will make up the overall effect
of the desirability factor generated by the services.

In master level play, we will also include branding requirements of products within commercial areas also, in this
way we can introduce buildings to master level play that will not be available in lower level play as they would have no
desirability impact in that way.

Again with these three services the levels of supply and demand make, build the desirability factor of the buildings
service desirability factor. Branding will be considered as a boost to these initial desirability figures.


Building Leisure Desirability

Building leisure desirability will enable us to introduce leisure buildings into Starpeace, a missing and long cried
for addition to the game. They will have two levels, one will be environmental boosts and the other will be both
environmental and commercial boost, one type will only cost money, the other will make money, they will both increase
building leisure desirability but the type that makes money will cost vastly more initially than those that don't.

For example we could have a swimming pool (only costs money) but provides a good boost to local residential facilities
and two a nascar race track, which would cost vastly more money to build and maintain but would represent a boost to
residential desirability, commercial desirability locally and population desirability on a town level.


Building Pollution Desirability

Building pollution desirability will be another negative factor within the game, and will negatively affect beauty,
lower acceptable commute distance thereby affecting residential and commercial desirability and also population desirability
levels for different types of residential buildings, being as high class population are less fond of it than lower class
who dislike it but don't really care that much about it.

As in the original game, different buildings will omit differing levels of pollution, but will produce an accumulating level
when grouped within a distance of each other, in this way, I expect to see better thought out layouts of towns and less occurrence
of the massive groupings that occur on the edges of towns in the current game version.

All buildings that omit pollution will also have available research to reduce their own level of pollution and in turn there effect
within groups of polluting areas. Modern practices have massively reduced pollution and should be brought into the game, the
reductions in carbon footprints and global warming being two.


Building Beauty Desirability

Building beauty desirability will affect local area beauty and collective beauty will have an increased effect on the buildings
within that area, in this way attention to beauty can have a larger effect than beauty in today's game.
All positive desirability affecting buildings should have beauty effects for the local area, in this way prosperous towns and cities
will gain from there prosperity and will become a force against the negative effect of pollution.
For example if an area of beauty is close to an area of pollution, the effect of that pollution may have more of an effect on
the cost of health care within the area than the overall desirability of a residential building.

This is more realistic and introduces another new factor of play and balance within the game.

Building Commute Desirability

Building commute desirability is not present in the current game iteration and is an importantly overlooked fact,
The distance of a residential space from an employment space should negatively affect the desirability of that residential building,
the reason this is important is that is will lead to more realistically set out towns and cities.

In the current game you can build one hundred hospitals on the edge of a town and it will increase the population of middle class on
the other side of the town. It is unrealistic and causes a massive glut of overbuilding to increase population, while in reality
people will commute large distances to work, they are less likely to do so regardless of the wage as often the longer commute
entails a larger cost of that commute, we need to find a level that combats this in the simulation to reduce the appeal to players
to overbuild. It is one of the most complained about facts of today's game.




